# Assembly Language Programming - CSC 2207
This repository contains all NASM code written for the class. All projects on the unit are contained here

# Running the code

## To build the app run

```sh
  nasm -f elf32 add.asm -o add.o
```

- `nasm`: This is the command to invoke the NASM (Netwide Assembler) compiler.
- `-f elf32`: Specifies the output format of the compiled object file as 32-bit ELF (Executable and Linkable Format).
- `hello-world.asm`: The input assembly file name, assumed to be named "hello-world.asm".
- `-o hello-world.o`: Specifies the output file name as "hello-world.o" (the object file generated by NASM).

### The purpose of this command is to assemble the assembly code ("hello-world.asm") into a 32-bit ELF object file ("hello-world.o").

## Then run:

```sh
  ld -m elf_i386 hello-world.o -o hello-world
```
- `ld`: This is the command to invoke the GNU linker, responsible for linking object files and creating an executable.
- `-m elf_i386`: Specifies the target architecture as 32-bit Intel x86 (elf_i386).
- `hello-world.o`: The input object file name to be linked, assumed to be named "hello-world.o".
- `-o hello-world`: Specifies the output file name as "hello-world" (the final executable).

### The purpose of this command is to link the object file ("hello-world.o") using the GNU linker and create an executable file named "hello-world".

## Then to execute the file:

```sh
  ./hello-world
```

- `./`: Indicates that the executable file is located in the current directory.
- `hello-world`: The name of the executable file to be executed.

### The purpose of this command is to run the "hello-world" executable file in the current directory. When executed, it will display the "Hello, World!" message in the console, as defined in the assembly code.